# 2.4GHz High Frequency Radio Transmission with ISM-band Transceiver nRF24L01 - Statistic data analysis

Data transmission through the 2.4GHz nRF24L01 Transceiver, using the nRF24L01 Arduino library and Python for statistic data analysis.

The goal was to transmit binary data payloads through the 2.4GHz nRF24L01 channels, where the University environment was tested and analysed.

# IDE & LANGUAGES USED

1) Arduino IDE 1.6.8: https://github.com/arduino/Arduino/tree/1.6.8
2) Python IDE 2.7: https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7/

# LIBRARIES & MODULES USED

1) Optimized High Speed NRF24L01+ Driver Class Documenation v1.1.4 [tmrh20.github.io/RF24/]

This library fork is designed to be: More compliant with the manufacturer specified operation of the chip, while allowing advanced users to work outside the recommended operation; Utilize the capabilities of the radio to their full potential via Arduino; More reliable, responsive, bug-free and feature rich; Easy for beginners to use, with well documented examples and features; Consumed with a public interface that's similar to other Arduino standard libraries.

2) pySerial 3.0 [https://pythonhosted.org/pyserial/]

This module encapsulates the access for the serial port. It provides backends for Python running on Windows, OSX, Linux, BSD (possibly any POSIX compliant system) and IronPython. The module named “serial” automatically selects the appropriate backend.

3) csv [https://docs.python.org/2/library/csv.html]

The csv module implements classes to read and write tabular data in CSV format. It allows programmers to say, “write this data in the format preferred by Excel,” or “read data from this file which was generated by Excel,” without knowing the precise details of the CSV format used by Excel. Programmers can also describe the CSV formats understood by other applications or define their own special-purpose CSV formats.

4) os [https://docs.python.org/2/library/os.html]

This module provides a portable way of using operating system dependent functionality. If you just want to read or write a file see open(), if you want to manipulate paths, see the os.path module, and if you want to read all the lines in all the files on the command line see the fileinput module. For creating temporary files and directories see the tempfile module, and for high-level file and directory handling see the shutil module.

5) matplotlib [http://matplotlib.org/]

For simple plotting the pyplot interface provides a MATLAB-like interface, particularly when combined with IPython. For the power user, you have full control of line styles, font properties, axes properties, etc, via an object oriented interface or via a set of functions familiar to MATLAB users.

6) NumPy [http://www.numpy.org/]

NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing with Python. It contains among other things: a powerful N-dimensional array object, sophisticated (broadcasting) functions, tools for integrating C/C++ and Fortran code, useful linear algebra, Fourier transform, and random number capabilities.

# HOW TO USE

The last updated Arduino code used is the 'transmissaoSerialBinariaBits.ino'. The code is responsible of bit payloads transmission through two transceptors: one transmits, the other receives and sends an acknowledgment payload to the transmitter.

To test a basic transmission, follow these steps:

1) Open the 'transmissaoSerialBinariaBits.ino' code;
2) Compile the code to an Arduino board with the transceptor connected (verify the nRF24L01 tmrh20 documentation for the hardware connections);
3) Open the 'transmissaoSerialBinariaBits.ino' code in another computer;
4) Change the 'radioNumber' variable to 1 (distinct ID for each node);
5) Compile the code to an Arduino board with the transceptor connected (verify the nRF24L01 tmrh20 documentation for the hardware connections);
6) Turn on the serial window in each Arduino IDE and test the transmission.

# CONTACT & FEEDBACKS

KAWASAKI, Davi // davishinjik [at] gmail.com